So here's a more realistic project.
Attached you find this project where after you downloaded it
you need to add in your Firebase links
and therefore to understand what's going on here,
you should make sure that you did not skip
the Http course section.
The section where I talk about connecting React apps
to a backend.
There I show how to set up Firebase as a dummy backend
and I show how sending Http requests works.
Which is of course, something you need a lot
in any kind of application you're building basically.
So, in this application here we are sending requests
and if you wanna follow along on your system
you should therefor make sure
that you have a Firebase account,
you can get started for free
as shown in this Http course section
and that there you are using the real time database
and you got your rules configured like this.
Set both read and write to true
or use the default test mode configuration,
and then use this URL which you find under data
and use that URL here, instead of my URL.
Keep the /tasks.json part though, you will need that.
So that's what you should do to follow along.
But what's this application doing?
Once you updated the code
and you installed all dependencies with NPM install
and you started the project with NPM start,
this is what you'll see on the screen.
It's a simple tasks application, a very simple one actually
where initially the tasks are loaded
and if we have no tasks
we of course have to add some tasks first,
for example, learn all about Hooks
and you simply click add task
and now this is sent to Firebase
it's all to display down there
and if you reload the application it's loaded
and displayed and it's stored here on Firebase.
Now I am only using what you learned
in the Http course section
and this all works by sending an Http request
with the fetch API, by handling errors
and a loading state
by transforming the data when it arrives
and by then displaying the data.
And we've got various involved components
but most importantly we got the app JS component
where we are fetching tasks
with this fetch task function,
which is either executed
because the component loaded due to use effect,
or because inside of this tasks component,
a button was clicked,
a button which has shown if we had an error
which allows us to try again.
So that's when this fetch task function is triggered
in the app component
and besides that in the new task component
we got the enter task handler function
where we also send a request
but here we are sending a post request
with some data attached to store task data on Firebase.
And this function is triggered
whenever this task form is submitted in the end,
which happens when this button is clicked
and we verified the entered value.
Now feel free to pause the video
and dig a bit deeper into the code,
but that is what's going on here.
And if you followed along in the Http course section,
which you should have,
then this is all basically just something you already saw.
Now I did create this basic yet more realistic example
because here we also got another chance
of adding at least one custom Hook.
And do you see where we could utilize the custom Hook?
Well, we got two similar kind of operations
in two different parts of this application.
And that would be here in the new task component
when we send the request to store data
and in the app component
when we send the request to get data.
Now, regarding the details, the code is different.
When we get the tasks, we configured a request like this
we send a get request without a body and without headers
and we have some transformation logic
which we apply to the response.
Whereas in the new task case we send a post request
and we do add data
and we have a different transformation logic
for the response.
But even though these details are different,
there are a lot of parts
where the code is pretty much the same.
For example, in both components, we are managing a loading
and an error State
and we are setting the loading and error States
in the same way.
We are also having the same error handling logic here
and so on.
So there are parts which are quite similar
and because that's the case
because we have some code duplication
some code re-usage here
because of that
we might wanna consider outsourcing this logic
into a separate function.
But since the logic
or at least parts of the logic,
which is being reused contains the usage
of other React Hooks
and the usage of State.
Since that's the case,
our regular function won't do the trick
because there we're not allowed to use React Hooks.
That's why here we have a great opportunity
for building a custom Hook
where we outsource the Http logic,
and then still in the end can reuse that stateful logic
for the loading and error State.
And that's therefor what we're going to do now
we're now going to apply our custom Hook knowledge
to build another accustomed Hook,
but this time our custom Hook,
which in the end encapsulates this Http logic.
Definitely feel free to try this on your own first.
It'll definitely be challenging
and they're also will not
just be one single way of doing this.
Nonetheless, try it on your own first
in the next lecture, we're going to implement it together.